# 37.吴恩达与李飞飞谈以人为本的AI.mp4

> 系列：37.吴恩达与李飞飞谈以人为本的AI (P2/6)

### AI润色版
Hi, it’s great to be here with U.S. Today, my old friend Professor Fei-Fei Li is a professor of computer science at Stanford University and also the director of HAI, the Human-Centered AI Institute. She previously served as Chief Scientist of AI at Google Cloud and led the AI division there.  
Thank you, Andrew. Happy to be here.  
So, I guess — how long have you known each other? Lost track — fully more than a decade?  
I mean, I’ve known your work long before we met, and I came to Stanford in 2009, but we started talking in 2007 — so fifteen years. And I can still have very clear memories of how chess lowe collectively, you know, French BME Christena FH bus — so to figure out how to recruit you to come to Stanford. It wasn’t hard. I just needed to sort of wave my students and life, but it’s hard to resist. Stanford. This is really great — having a funny college here for, yeah, me too — speak a long time, and we’re very lucky to be the generation seeing AI go through progress.  
So, there was something about your background that always found inspiring, which is — you know, today people are entering AI from all walks of life, and sometimes people still wonder: “If I major in something other than AI, is AI a right path for me?” So, I thought what the most interesting positive vector was that you — she started not studying computer science or AI, but you started out studying physics. And then had this pop to becoming one of the most globally recognized AI scientists. And so how did you make that switch from physics to AI?  
Well, that’s a great question. And you — oh, both of us are passionate about young people’s future and how they’re coming into the world of AI. The truth is, if I could enter AI back then — one and twenty years ago — today, anybody could enter AI because AI has become a widely prevalent and globally important technology. But myself — maybe I was an accident. So, I have always been a physics kid — sure, you were too. But physics was my passion all the way through — you know, middle school, high school, college. I went to Princeton, majoring in physics. And one thing physics has taught me till today is really the passion for asking big questions — the passion for seeking natural truths. I was really having fun as a physics student at Princeton. And one thing I did was reading up stories and just writings of great physicists of the twentieth century — I’d hear about what they think about the world, especially people like Albert Einstein, Richard Feynman, Roger Penrose. You know, shoulders. And it was really funny to notice that many of the writings towards the later half of the career of these great physicists were not about just the atomic world or the physical world, but ponderings about equally deep questions — like life, like intelligence, like human conditions. You know, Erwin Schrödinger wrote this book, *What Is Life?*, and Roger Penrose wrote *The Emperor’s New Mind*, right? And that really got it — it really got me very curious about the topic of intelligence.  
So, one thing led to another during college time — I did intern at a couple of New York labs, and especially vision-related ones. And I was like, well, this is just as alluring a question to ask as the beginning of the universe, or what is matter made of. And that got me to switch from undergraduate degree in physics to graduate degree in AI — even though I didn’t know much about AI during our time. I was a dirty word — it was AI winter. So, I was more into machine learning and computer vision and computational neuroscience.  
Yeah, I know — I’ll see. I think when I was in grad school, I was too busy writing code — I just managed to blithely ignore the AI winter and just kept coding.  
Yeah, well, I was too busy solving PDEs.  
Hey — and S.H., do you have an odyssey question now?  
Yes, my odyssey question is still intelligence. I think since Alan Turing, humanity has not fully understood what are the fundamental computing principles behind intelligence. You know, we use the word AI today — we use the word AGI — but at the end of the day, I still dream of a set of simple equations or simple principles that can define the process of intelligence — whether it’s animal intelligence or machine intelligence. And this is similar to physics. For example, many animals joined the knowledge of flying, right? Are we replicating birds’ flying, or are we building airplanes? And a lot of people ask the question of the relationship between AI and brain — and to me, whether we’re building a bird or replicating a bird or building an airplane — at the end of the day, aerodynamics and physics govern the process of flying. And I do believe one day we will discover that — you know, I think about this one learning arm hypothesis — could a lot of intelligence be explained by one or a very simple machine learning principle? And if he’s like, we’re also far from cracking that now. But in the weekend, when I spare time — when I think about learning, our rooms are where they could go — this is one of the things I saw, you know, I’m excited about — just thinking about.  
I totally agree. I still feel like we are pre-Newton. If we’re doing physics analogies before Newton, there had been great physics — great phenomena, a lot of studies of how the celestial bodies move and all that — but it was Newton who started to write very simple laws. And I think we are still going to that very exciting coming-of-age of AI as a basic science and a premier discipline.  
Yeah, my opinion is nice to hear — how, despite machine learning and AI having come so far, it still feels like there are a lot more unanswered questions — a lot more work to be done. But maybe some of the people joining the field today will do that work.  
Absolutely. I mean, that’s true — let’s calculate: it’s only about sixty years old — it’s a very young field. Modern physics and chemistry and biology are all hundreds of years, right? So I think it is very — it is very exciting to be entering the field of sciences of intelligence and studying AI.  
Yeah, I do go. I think I remember chatting with the late Professor John McCarthy, who had coined the term “artificial intelligence.” And boy — the field has changed since when you know he conceived the way that the works often came out — the home AI — but maybe another ten years from now. Yeah — someone watching this will come up with a new set of ideas, and then we’ll be saying, “Boy, it’s so different than what you thought AI would be.” That is an exciting future. The build towards.  
Yeah, I’m sure Newton would not have dreamed of this — so you know, our evolution of science sometimes takes straight, sometimes takes a while. And I think we’re absolutely in an exciting phase of AI right now — you know, it’s interesting hearing you paint this grand vision for AI going back with bit. That is one of the pieces of your background that I found inspiring — which is, when you’re just getting started, I hope you speak about how you were a physics student, but not only that — you were also running a laundry to pay for school. So, tell me more about that.  
So, I came to this country — to America — to New Jersey, actually, when I was fifteen. And one thing great about being in New Jersey — it was close to Princeton. So, I often just take a weekend trip with my parents to admire that place where Einstein spent most of his career in the latter half of his life. But you know, with typical immigrant life — and it was tough. And by the time I entered Princeton, my parents didn’t speak English. And one thing led to another — it turns out, running a dry cleaner might be the best option for my family — especially for me to leave that business — because it’s a week-day business — it would be hard for me to be a student — and it’s actually, believe it or not, not running the dry cleaning shop is very machine-heavy — which is good for an AM STEM student like me. So, we decided to open a dry cleaners shop — a small town, New Jersey — Ledgewood, New Jersey. I turned out we were physically not too far from Bell Labs — where lots of early convolutional neural network research was happening. But I had no idea — just some internet — like the eighteen-twenties — last way with brush pro — with Michael Jordan — was my mentor and BB Sherry. And then of Bruce — great arriver — you’re coding — I was trying to clean. No — only later — much later — did I start interning. Yeah — and it was seven years — I did that for the entire undergrad and part of my grad school — and I hired my parents.  
And yeah — now that’s really inspiring. I think, you know, I know you’ve been brilliant at citing or all your life — and I think the story of you running a laundry — matto glove proof computer sciences — and hope that inspires some people watching — that no matter where you are — this planning — yeah — though — even — we know — my high school job was an office. And so to this — they are remember red doing a lot of filter coffee — and the saving power — using the thread that was glass seeing. So — much little little coffee in the high school — I thought I could build robot — do this little the coffee — maybe I could do something — as did you succeed?  
I did.  
And then — you know, when people think about you and your work you’ve done — one of the huge successes everyone thinks of is ImageNet — where you established an early benchmark for competition — it was really completely instrumental to the modern rise of deep learning and computer vision. One thing I bet not many people know about is how you — S.H. — got started on ImageNet. So — the origin story of ImageNet.  
Yeah — well, Andrew — that’s a good question — because a lot of people see ImageNet as just labeling a dataset of images. But where we began was really going after a north star — bringing back my physics background. So — when I entered Princeton — ’97 — okay — I was three years later than you — 2000. And that was a very exciting period — because I was in the competition and computational neuroscience lab of Pete Perona and Christof Koch — and leading up to that, there had been first of two things — very exciting. One is that the world of AI at this point — at that point — wasn’t coding AI — computer vision or natural language processing — had found it difficult — machine learning — the idea of applying machine learning to computer vision — that was like a controversial thing, right? And I was the first generation of graduate students who were embracing all the base — all the inference algorithms — and all that. And that was one exciting happening. A second exciting happening that most people don’t know and don’t appreciate — is the couple of decades — probably one to two or three decades — of incredible cognitive science and neuroscience work in the field of vision — in the world of vision — human vision — that has really established a couple of really critical north star problems — just understanding human visual processing and human intelligence. And one of them is the recognition — understanding of natural objects and natural things — because a lot of the psychology and cognitive science work is pointing to us — that is an intactable missed — whatever that word functionality — and the ability of human intelligence is more robust, faster and more nuanced than we had thought. We even find neural correlates — brain areas devoted to faces — places — body parts. You know — so — these two things — to my page — led me to study of using machine learning methods to work on real-world object recognition. But it became very painful — very quickly — that we are coming — banging against one of the most — continue to be the most important challenge in AI — machine learning — is the lack of generalization — you know — you can design a beautiful model — or you want — if you are overfitting the model. I remember when it used to be possible to polish your computer vision paper — you know — showing your words on one image — and yeah — it’s just overfitting — the models are not very expressive — and we like the data — and we also — as a field — was betting — making the variables very — especially rich — by like hand-engineering features. Remember — you know — a variable carrying a ton of semantic meaning — but with hand-engineered features. So — and then towards the end of my PhD — my adviser Pietro Perona — and I start to look at each other — and say — well — boy — we need more data — if we believe in the north star problem of object recognition — we look back at the tools we have — you know — mathematically speaking — we’re overfitting every model we’re encountering — we need to take a fresh look at this. So — one thing led to another — he and I decided we just do it — at that point — we think it was a large-scale data project — call — take one — one. I remember the dataset — I remember paper using your call — tea — one — you and your early graduate student — and have been bena a lot of researchers. Yeah — that at one one — that was me — and my mom labeling — and a couple of undergrads. But that was it — the early days of internet. So — suddenly — the availability of data was a new thing — you suddenly — I remember piano — still have this super expensive digital camera — I think it was kind of or something like six thousand dollars — walking around taking pictures. But we are the internet generation — and I go to Google Image Search — and start to see these thousands and tens of thousands of images — and I tell Perona — let’s stand load — of course — it’s all that easy to download. Also — one thing led to another — we did this contact — one of one dataset of a hundred and one object category — and about — I would say — thirty to fifty — thirty thousand pictures — think is really thing — don’t you know — even though everyone’s heard the ImageNet today — even you kind of took a couple of erie — you did count one of one — and there was a success loss of you were used that — but the even the early learning from building count one one — they gave you the basis to what turned out — if you even an even bigger success — right — except that by the time we start — I became an assistant professor — we started to look at the problem — and realize it’s a waiver that we think — just mathematically speaking — contest one of one was not sufficient to power the algorithms — we decided to ImageNet — ImageNet — that was the time people start to think — what we’re too — we’re doing too much — right — it’s just too crazy — the idea of downloading the entire internet of images — and mapping out all the English nouns — was a little bit of — I start together — lot of push back — I remember that at one of the CVPR conference — when I presented the early idea of ImageNet — a couple of researchers publicly questioned and said — if you cannot recognize one category of object — let’s say — the chairs you’re sitting — how do you imagine — or what’s the use of a dataset of twenty-two thousand classes and fifty million images?  
Yeah — ah — but — but in the end — know that giant dataset — a lot — a lot of value for comments number of researchers around the world. So — I think it was the combination of betting on the right north star problem — and the data that drives it. So — it was a fun process.  
Yeah — and yet to me — one of the — when I think about that story — it seems like one of those examples where — you know — sometimes people feel like they should only work on projects that the hearst thing at the first heat. But I feel like for people working in machine learning — your first project is a bit smaller — still define — have a good win — use the learning to build up to even bigger things — and sometimes you get — you know — imagine size when all of it.  
Yeah — well — but in the meantime — I think it’s also important to be driven by an odyssey goal — though — you know — you can size your problem — or size your project — as local milestones — and so on along this journey. But I also look at some of our current students — there are so peer pressured by this current AI climate of publishing non-stop — it becomes more incremental papers — to just get into a publication for the sake of it. And I personally always push my students to ask the question — what is the north star that’s driving you?  
Yeah — next year — you right — you for the self — when I do research over the years — I’ve always pretty much done what I’m excited about — where I went to try to push the field forward — it doesn’t don’t listen — the people — have to listen to people — let them shape your opinion — within in the end — I think the best researchers — let the world — your opinion — in the end — drive things for using totally together — so own inner fire — right?  
So — as a research program developed — you’ve wound up taking your lesser foundation in computer vision and neural science — and applying to all sorts of topics — including your very visible work at the neural science applications. Would love to hear more about that.  
Yeah — happy to — I think the evolution of my research — comparison — also kind of follows the evolution of visual intelligence in animals. And there are two topics that truly excited me — what is what is a truly impactful application area that would help human lives — and that’s my healthcare work — that one — what is vision at the end of the day about — and that brings me to the trying to close the loop between perception and robotics — like learning. So — on the healthcare side — you know — one thing — Andrew — there was a number — I shocked me about ten years ago — when I met my long-term collaborator — Dr. Arnold Milstein — at Stanford Medical School — that number is about a quarter of a million Americans die of medical errors every year — I had never imagined a number been that high due to medical errors. There are many — many reasons — but we can rest assure — most of the reasons are not intentional — these are errors of unintended — you know — mistakes — and so — excuse my boy number — I can — Sabah — forty thousand death a year from automotive accidents — this is completely tragic — and this is even — boy — Dri was gillow say that I’m glad you brought it up — just one example — one number within that mine — bugling number is the number of hospital-acquired infection resulted fatality — is more than ninety-five thousand — that is more than that two point five times than the death of car accidents — and in this particular case — hospital acquired infection is a result of many things — but by in large — lack of good hand hygiene practice. So — if you look at WHO — there has been a lot of protections about conditions and hand hygiene practice — but in real health care delivery — when things get busy — and when the process is TBS — and when there’s a lack of feedback system — you still make a lot of mistakes. Another medical — tragic medical fact — is that more than seventy billion dollars every year are spent in — in four resulted injury fatalities — and most of this happened to elderly at home — but also in the hospital rooms — and these are huge issues — and when Ni and I got together back in 2012 — it was the height of self-driving car — what’s the hand — what’s the world right to word excitement in Silicon Valley — then we look at the technology of smart sensors — cameras — lidar — radar — whatever smart sensors — machine learning algorithm — and holiday understanding of a complex environment with high stakes for human lives — I was looking at all that — self-driving car — and realized in health care delivery — we have the same situation — much of the process — the human behaviour process of health care — is in the dark — and if we could have smart sensors beat the patient rooms — or senior homes — to help our clinic and patients to stay safer — that will be amazing. So — early and I in bark on — is what we call ambient intelligence research agenda. But one thing I learned — which probably will lead to other topics — is as soon as you’re applying AI to real human conditions — there is a lot of human issues — in addition to machine learning issues — for example — privacy — I remember reading some of your papers — Honion found it really thing — how you could build into employee stems — they were — you know — relatively privacy preserving.  
Yeah — well — thank you — well — the first iteration of the technologies — we use cameras that do not capture RGB information — and you’ve used a lot of that in self-driving car — the depth cameras — as — for example — there you preserve a lot of privacy — the information just by not seeing the faces — in the identity of the people. But what’s really interesting over the past decade — is the changes of technology — is actually giving us a bigger tool set for privacy-preserving computing in this condition — for example — on-device inference — you know — as the chips getting more — more powerful — if you don’t have to transmit any data through the network — and to the central server — you help people better federated learning — we know it’s still early stage — but that’s another potential tour for privacy-preserving computing — and then differential privacy — and also encryption technologies. So — we’re starting to see that human demand — yellow privacy — and other issues — is driving actually a new wave machine learning technology — in ambient intelligence — in healthcare.  
Yeah — that’s great — yeah — I been encouraged to — to see the your role practical applications of differential privacy — actually — the real federal learners said — pray — the P.S. low in the head — in reality — I think we get there — this is interesting how consumers in the last several years have fortunately got ten much more knowledge for without privacy — and our increasingly — we so important — I think the public is also making us be better scientists — yeah — yeah — and and I think and I think elsewhere — ly — you know — people understand AI holds everyone — including us — the host — everyone count table — not hopefully do the right thing.  
Yeah — and you know — and on that note — one of the really think piece of work you’ve been doing — has been leading several efforts to help educate they just later — and so — I hope governments — special U.S. governments — work to a better laws and better regulation — as special you release AI — that sounds like very important — and and I suspect some days — the week — I will get some frustration work — but we will love to hear more about that.  
Yes — so — I think at first of — I have to credit minimum people — so — about four years ago — and I was actually finishing my ebdon from Google time — I was very privileged to work with so many businesses — you know — enterprise developers — just just a large number and variety of vertical industries — are realizing AI human impact — that was when mainly um faculty leaders at Stanford — and also just our president — provost — former president and former provost — all ll get together — I realized there is a role historical road at Stanford needs to play in the advances of AI — we were part of the part — part of the birth place of — you know — a lot of our previous generation have ve done — and all the work you’ve done — and some of the work I’ve done — let to AI — today’s AI — what is our historical opportunity and responsibility — with that — we believe that the next generation of AI education — and research — and policy needs to be human-centered — and hey — established the Human-Centered AI Institute — we call HAI — one of the work that really — really took me outside of my conference — Zona anding experts — is really a deeper engagement with policy thinkers and makers — because — you know — we’re here in Silicon Valley — and there is a culture and silica values — which just keep making things — and the law will catch up by itself — but AI is impacting human lives — and sometimes negatively — so o — rapidly — that IT is not good for any of us — if we the experts are not at the table with the policy thinkers and makers — to really try to make this technology better for the people — I mean — we’re talking about fairness — we’re talking about privacy — we also are talking about the brain drain of AI to industry — and the concentration of data and computing — a small number of of technology companies — all these are really part of the changes of our time — some are really exciting changes — some of profiling act — that we don’t — we cannot necessarily predict yet — so — one of the policy work that SFA has very probably engaged in — as we were one of the leading universities that lobby a bill called the National AI Research Cloud Past Force Bill — I changed the name from research cloud to research resource — so — now the bills across name is near National AI Research Resource — and this bill is calling for a task force to put together a road map for America’s public sector — especially higher education and research sector — to increase their access to resource for AI compute and AI data — and really is in rejuvenate America’s ecosystem in — in AI innovation and research — and I — on the twelve person tfd for underbid and administration for this bill — and we hope that’s a piece of policy — that it’s not a regulatory policy — is more an incentive policy — to build and regional ecosystems.  
I’m glad that yet doing this — the hope shape U.S. Policy — and this type of making sure enough — resources are allocated to — to make sure healthy develop — I like just — just something that don’t every country needs a display.  
Yeah — so — you know — just from the things that you are doing by yourself — not to speak of the things that the global AI community is doing — this is so o much going on the AI right now — so we all please — so o — much you signed up — I found it for someone getting started in machine learning for the first time — sometimes that SO — much going on — they can almost feel love it over while name — totally — what advice do you have for someone getting started?  
The machine learning — good question — Andrew — I’m sure you have great advice — you’re one of the world known advocate for AI machine learning education — so — ID — O — get this question a lot as well — and one thing you’re told — right — is I ve really today feels different from our time — enduring just further record — I was — so how time — yes — that’s true when we were starting in — yeah — I love that exactly — what’s no part of this when we have started the entrance to AI admission — earning — I was relatively narrow — you’re almost have to start from computer science and go — right — you know — as a physics waiter — I still have to watch myself into the computer science track or electrical engineering track to — to get to AI — but today — I actually think that there is mainly aspect of AI that — that creates entry points for people from all walks of life — on the technical side — I think it’s obvious that there’s just a incredible platform of resources out there on the internet — from course — are to — you know — you do to take talk to get up — that there’s so o much that students worlwide can learn about AI and machine learning compare to the time we began learning machine learning — and also any campus — we’re not talking about — just college cams — we’re talking about high school campus — Even someone has earlier — we’re starting to see more available classes and resources — So — I think there is I do encourage those of the Young people with the technical interest and resources and opportunity to embrace these resources because it’s it’s a lot of fun — But having said that — for those of you who are not coming from a technical angle — who’s still are passionate about AI — whether it’s the downstream application or that the creativity — it in genders or the policy and social angle — or important social — no problems — Whether is digit economics or the governance — governance — or — you know — history — ethics — political sizes — there — I do invite you to — to join us because there is a lot of work to be done — there’s a lot of a lot of unknown questions — For example — my colleague get it are questioning — are trying to find answers on how do o you define our economy in the digital age — What does IT mean when robots — software are participating in the work flow — more more — how do o you measure our economy — That’s lot of AI coding question that is AAI impact question — We’re looking at the incredible advances of — of generative ai — and there will be more — what does I mean for a creative creativity and to the creators — from music — to art — to writing — I think you there is AA lot of concerns — and I think it’s right tefl ly soo — But in the meantime — it takes people together to figure this out and also to use this new tool — So — I think — in short — I just think it’s it’s a very exciting time — And anybody with eighty walks of life — as as you are passionate — This — there’s a role to play.  
Yeah — I think that’s really exiting — What is how about economics — think about you — my conscience with professor — ic Green — is impact of a on economy — but from from which is saying — And I agree — it seems like no matter what your current interest are — A — I is such a general purpose technology — that the combination of your current interest and ai is often promising — And I find that even for learners that may not yet have a specific interest — you know — if you find a way to ai — start learning things — and the interest will evolve — And then you can start to craft your own path — and given way AIS today — there’s still so o much room — and S — O much need for a lot more people to craft their own past to D — O — This exciting work that I think the world still is a lot more totally.  
Yeah — so — one piece of grapes that you did that thought very cool — was starting a project title calucci — or in a later — AI — for all — which was really reaching out to — you know — high school and even younger students — which are to give them more opportunities in AI — including people of all of surfing here — or to that.  
Yeah — well — this is in the spirit of this conversation — is that was back in twenty fifteen — there was there was starting to be a lot of excitement of ai — but there was also starting to be this talk about killer robot coming next door — Terminator is coming — And I was at that time — Andrew — I was the director of several b — and I was think he — you — we know how far we are from terminators coming — that seem to be a really a little bit of far fetch concern — But I was living my worklife with the real concern — I felt no one was talking about — which was the lack of representation in AI — At that time — I guess — after define has left ed — I was the only woman — faculty — Steve — her AI lab — And we’re having very small around fifteen percent of of women graduate students — And we really don’t see anybody from the under resented minority groups — Instead — T programme — This is a national or even a word wide issue — S — O — I wasn’t just stanford — and frankly — still needs lot of work today — Exactly — So how DOIDO this — well — I got together with my former student of augers — a kf sky — and also a long term — Educator of stem topics — doctor rick summer — from a stanford precollege c study program — and thought about inviting high scholars — At that time — women — high school — Young women — to participating a summer program to inspire a — to — to learn AI — and and that was how I started in twenty fifteen and twenty seventeen — We ve got a lot of encouragement and support from people like jennen and Lori hong and min — a — Gates — and we form the national non profit A — I — for all — which is really committed to training or — or or or helping tomorrow s leaders shaping tomorrow leaders for ai from students of all walks of life — especially the traditionally underserved and under represented communities — And the know till today — we had minimum ing summer camps — s and summer programs across the country — more than more than fifteen universities are involved — And we have online curricular to encourage students as well as college pathway programs to to continue support these students career by matching them with internships and mentors — SO — it’s it’s a continue effort of encouraging students of all walks of life — And remember back then — I think the group was printing these really cool t shirts that ask ked the question AI will change the world who will change AI — And I thought the answer of making sure everyone can come in the part to say that was a great answer — Yeah — still an an important question today — Yeah — So o — that’s a great thoughts — And I think that takes us to at the end of the interview — any final thoughts for people washing this still that this is a very nice and field — As you said — Andrew — we are sowing the middle — I still feel there is just so many questions that you know — I wake up excited to work on with my students in the lab — And I think there’s a lot more opportunities for — for the Young people out there who want to learn and contribute and shape tomorrow — A — I — what’s very staring really great to chat of you — And thank you — Thank you — It’s fun to have these conversations.

