# 100.吴恩达与克里斯·曼宁谈自然语言处理.mp4

> 系列：37.吴恩达与李飞飞谈以人为本的AI (P3/6)

### AI润色版
Hi, I'm delighted to be here with my old friend and collaborator, Christopher Manning. Manning has a very long and impressive CV, but just briefly, he is Professor of Computer Science at Stanford University and also the director of the Stanford AI Lab. And he also has the distinction of being the most highly cited scientist in NLP or natural language processing. So, really good to be here with you. Just good to get a chance to catch up with no interruption for many years. And one interesting part of your background, I thought, was that even though today you distinguish search and machine learning and NLP, you started off in a very different field—you PD. If I recall correctly, wasn’t it linguistics, and you were studying the syntax of language? So, how do you go from studying syntax to NLP research? Sorry—I can tell you about that, but I should point out that, you know, I’m still an active professor of linguistics as well. I have a courtesy appointment at Stanford—had once in a blue moon, not very often. I actually stand in linguistics as well as I’m computer science–involved in natural language processing. So, you know, I was very interested in human languages and how they work, how people understand them, how they acquire them. So I had this sort of appeal—I saw this appeal—and human language is, but that equally let me think about ideas that we now very much think about as machine learning or computational AI ideas. So two of the central ideas in human language: how do little children acquire human language? And for adults—well, we’re just talking to each other now, and we pretty much understand each other. And you know, that’s an amazing thing—how we manage to do that. So what kind of processing allows that? And so that could early on get me interested in looking at machine learning. In fact, even before I’d made it to graduate school, I’d started baby steps in learning machine learning coming off of those interests. Yeah—if human language is learned, we know we had learned at some point in our lives to speak English. If we grow up in a different place, we would have learned to speak a different language. So it’s amazing to think how humans do that. And now maybe machines learn language too—but so, tell us more about your journey. You had PhD in linguistics, and then—how did you add? So there’s some stuff before that as well. So I mean, when I was an undergrad—well, actually, I did three majors: one in math, one in computer science, and one in linguistics. Now, people get a slightly exaggerated sense of what that means—if you are in an American context, because, you know, I think it’s impossible to complete three majors as an undergraduate at Stanford, but you know, actually where I was as an undergrad, I didn’t get degrees. So I could do whatever I wanted, like in risks. So you had to complete two majors—just complete the coursework. So it’s sort of more like a double major, maybe in US terms—you very don’t know this about me, but that’s confusing. I showed was a triple major—was once in this statistics and economics—yeah, both of triple majors. Yeah—so many I did have background and interest and doing things with computer science. And so my interests were kind of mixed. And I actually, you know, when I applied to graduate schools, one of the places I liked was Carnegie Mellon because they were strong in computational linguistics. And if I’d gone there, I wouldn’t have been a CS student, but I ended up at Stanford as a linguistics student. Because at that time, there was no natural language processing in the CS department. But you know, I was still interested in pursuing ideas naturally with processing. But at that point in the early nineties, things were just dying to change. But the bulk of natural language processing was rule-based, logical, declarative systems—but it was also in those years—the beginning of the nineties—there first started to be lots of human language material, text and speech, available digitally. So this was really actually just before the worldwide web exploded, but they were already starting to be things like legal materials and newspaper articles and parliamentary hansards, where you couldn’t get your hands on millions of words of human language. And it just seemed really clear that there had to be exciting things that you could do by working empirically from lots of human language. And that’s what really sort of got me involved in the new kind of natural language processing that then led to my subsequent career. That sounds like your career was initially linguistics—and the rise of data, machine learning, and probabilistic methods shifted to NLP and machine learning and NLP—yeah, I mean, it certainly shifted. And I’ve certainly shifted much more to doing both natural language processing and machine learning models. But you know, as some extent, the balance is varied. But I’ve sort of been with that as a while—you know, actually, how is an undergrad—for my undergrad, this—it was sort of learning the forms of words—so how you can, which became a famous problem of sort of learning past tense of English verbs in the early connectionist literature. And I was trying and a sort of learning paradigms of forms of verbs, and I was living rules for the different forms using the C4.5 decision tree learning algorithm. Remember that? Yes—right—good times. Yeah—surprising—the non-attitude—how going from present to past and from run to ran and all the other real special cases can be—yeah—yeah. So we’ve talked a bunch about NLP—natural language processing—so for some of the people who are picking up machine learning for the first time—can you say what is NLP? Sure—absolutely—yeah—NLP stands for natural language processing. Another word term that sometimes is used for that is computational linguistics. It’s the same thing. I mean, natural language processing is actually what we do—so that means that we are doing things with human languages. So you have the conception that, that you’re enough of the computer science—then when you say language, you’re thinking your programming language—and therefore, you need to say natural language to mean that you’re talking about the languages that human beings use. So overall, natural language processing is doing anything intelligent with human languages. So in one sense, that breaks down into understanding human language, producing human language, acquiring human language. Though people also often think about it in terms of different applications. And so then you might think about things like machine translation or doing question answering or generating advertising copy or summarizing. There are so many different tasks that people work on with particular goals in mind where you do things with human language. And there’s a lot of natural language processing—you know, so much of what the world works on—our human world—is built with and transferred into and of human language material. So you, because of all of these applications—or even web search—you use NLP, right—many, many times. Yeah—you write in some sense—the biggest application of natural language is web search—China—that’s really the big one. I mean, traditionally, it was a kind of a simple one, right—but in the good old days, it was—you know, there are various weighting factors and so on—but it was mainly sort of matching keywords in your search terms—and then factors about the quality of the page—it didn’t really feel like language understanding—but that’s really been changing over the years. So these days, you’ll often, if you ask a question to a search engine, it will give you—you know—an answer box where it has extracted a piece of text and puts what it thinks the answer in bold or color, or something like that—which is then this task of question answering—then it’s really natural language understanding—yeah—yeah. And I feel like—in addition to web search—maybe the big one—even when we are going to an online shopping website or a movie backend—typing in what we want—doing a website search—and much smaller websites than the big search engine—that also increasingly uses NLP algorithms. And it is also clearly creating a lot of value. Maybe to you it’s not new—the real NLP—but this still seems very valuable—and there are here lots of the interesting problems in any e-commerce website with search—very difficult problems—actually—when people describe the kind of goodness they want—and you need to be trying to match it—the products that are available. That isn’t the easy problem—it turns out—yes—yeah—so over the last couple decades, NLP has gone through a major shift—from all of the rule-based techniques that he luted to just now—so using really machine learning—and so—you were one of the people—you know—leading power that charge—and seeing every suffered the way of creating some of the standards as it happen—can you say a bit about that process and what you saw? So absolutely—yes—so when I started off as an undergraduate graduate student—really most of natural language processing was done by hand-built systems—which variously used rules and inference procedures to sort of try to build up parses and understanding of a piece of text. What’s an example of a rule or inference system? So—you know—a rule could be part of the structure of human language—like English sentence normally consists of a noun phrase followed by verb and then object noun phrase—and that gives you some idea of how to understand the meaning of the sentence. But it might also be saying something about how to interpret words—so that a lot of words in English are very ambiguous—but if you have something like the words star and its in the context of a movie—and then it’s probably referring to a human being on the screen—or an object. And in those days, people tried deal with things like that—using rules—that sort—that doesn’t seem very likely to work these to us—the ease of is—but you know, once upon a time, I was pretty standard. And so it was only when lots of digital text and speech started to become available—but it really seemed like there was this different way—then instead—we could stop calculating statistics over human language material and building machine learning models—and so that was the first thing that I got into in sort of late nineteen ninety—nineteen—and so the first area—and where I said—doing lots of research and publishing papers and—king—well known—is building one—in the early days, we often called on statistical natural language processing. But it later merged into—in general—probabilistic approaches to artificial intelligence and machine learning. And that sort of took us through approximately two thousand ten—let’s say—and that’s roughly when the new interest in deep learning and using large artificial neural networks started to take off—from my interest in that—I really have you to think—Andrew—because at this stage—Andrew was still full time at Stanford—he was in the office next door to me—and he was really excited about the new things that we are happening in the area of deep learning. I guess—anyone who walked in his office—he told about so exciting plus happened—um—your network should not suba that—and so—you know—that was really the important that got me pretty early on involved in looking at things in neural networks. I had actually seen a bit of it before—so—as a graduate student here—actually—Dave Rumelhart was at Stanford inside—and I taken this neural network class—and so—you know—I’ve seen some of that—but I had actually really been what I’ve gone into from my own research. So—I think know that thank you—yeah—but and we want out—you know—supervising some students together—yeah—but not to hear the rise of also deep learning in the NLP—what did you see? So—staying about two thousand ten—yeah—many students started the first papers in the ACL, EMNLP conferences—you know—it’s always hard when you are trying to do something new—we had exactly the same experiences that people—fifty or years earlier—I had when they start trying to do statistical NLP of when this—in the step of sway of doing things that really hard to push out new ideas. So really some of our first papers were rejected from conferences—and instead appeared at machine learning conferences of deep learning workshops—but very quickly that started to change—and people got super interested in neural network ideas. But I sort of feel like the neural network period—which so started and effectively about two thousand ten itself—divides in two—because the first period basically lasted to two thousand eighteen—we show a lot of success that building neural networks for all sorts of task—we build them first—syntactic parsing and sentiment analysis—and yeah—what else—question answering—but it was sort of like—we are doing the same thing that we used to do with other kinds of machine learning models—except we now had a better machine learning model—and we are sort of instead of training up a logistic regression—or support vector machine—we are still doing the same kind of sentiment analysis task—but now we are doing with the new neural network. So—I think looking back now and some sense—the bigger change came around two thousand eighteen—because that was when the idea of—well—we could just stop with a large amount of human language material and build large ones and self-supervised models that I was models—then like BERT and GPT and success of models to that—and they could just so ve acquire from word prediction over a huge amount of text—amazing—no inch of human languages—I think—really probably that’s gone of viewed and result is the bigger kind of cut point where the way things who were done—I’m really changed—yeah—there—I think there is that train for the large language models learn from massive—mothers are—I think—even to read up to that—there was one of your research papers that really—you know—slady bi mine—which is a global paper—so—because with word embedding—where you learn in a vacuum numbers yet to rubbin a word using the network that was quite that was quite my blowing for me—and then the GloVe work that you did really cleaned up—the math made as—so much simply then ever be as a oas—all there is to it—and then you can learn these really surprisingly detail representations with the computer—learns meal answers—what—what is mean solution. So—I shouldn’t have a little bit credit to others of people also worked on some similar ideas—including my own colleague—Bengio and Jawbone—and how has to meko of in and colleague Google—but the GloVe word vectors is one of the very prominent and systems of word embedding. So this word embedding already did—ya—you’re right—illustrates this idea of using self-supervised learning—that we just took a massive amount text—and then we could build these models that knew an enormous amount about the meaning of words. I mean—it’s still something I thought to show people every year in the first lecture of my NLP class—because—you know—it’s something simple—but it actually just works—so surprisingly well—you couldn’t do this sort of simple modeling of trying to predict the words—given the words in the context—and simply pay sort of running the math of learners to those predictions—well—he learned all these things about word meaning—and you can do this really nice patterns of you—similar word meaning or analogies—of something like—you know—painter is to painting as brush is to painting—right—then it’s sort of already showing just a lot of successful learning—so—that was the preacher what then—got developed to the next stage with things like BERT and GPT—where wasn’t just meanings of individual words—but meanings of whole pieces of text and context—yeah—so—I start an amazing that you can you take a small neural network or some model—and then given lots of English sentences or some of the language and higher—wow—it to prevent—what is the weather I just hit—and that allows it s there—these analyzes these analogies—and these are deep what you think I really deep things—hind—the meaning of the words—and then—then two thousand eighteen—maybe this other infection point we have enough at that—yeah—so—I mean—in two thousand and eighteen—that was the point in which will sort of really two things happen—one thing is that people are willing two thousand seventeen to developed this new neural architecture—which was a much more scalable onto modern parallel GPU—and so—that was the transformer architecture—the second part of it—though—was maybe people rediscovered because so using the same trick as the GloVe model—that if you have the task of set of just predicting a word—given a context—either context on both sides of it—all the proceeding words that—that just turns out to be an amazing learning task—and that’s surprises a lot of people—and a lot of the time you see discussions—and where are people the disparaging things—if you know—this is nothing interesting as happening—all—let’s doing a statistics to predict which words most likely come after the proceeding words—and I think the really interesting thing is—that—that’s true—but is not true—I mean—because yes—I thought the task is—if you’re predicting that the next word given preceding words—but the really interesting thing is—if you want to do that task really as well as possible—then it actually helps to understand the whole of the rest of the sentence and know who’s doing what the who in—what’s in the sentence—but more than that—it also helps to understand the world—because if your—your text is going something along the lines of—you know—the currency used in Fiji is—well—you need have some world knowledge to know what the right answer of that is—and so—good models at doing this—learn both to follow the structure of sentences in their meaning and to know facts about the world also that they can predict—and therefore—this turns into what sometimes I referred to is an AI-complete task—right—that you really need—there’s nothing that can’t actually be useful in answering this—what word comes next sentence—right—you know—he couldn’t be in the world cup—send me finals—the teams—and you need to know something that soccer to be giving the—right answer—yei complete this funny concept—is this idea that you can solve this one problem—you can solve—you know—everything—and they are kind to make an the knowledge to AI-complete problems from the theory of computing—what do you think—do you think predicting the next word is AI-complete? I have very max buildings of all of that—we saw—I—I—I—I—I don’t think it’s true—thanks—just let you think—I think it not quite true—because I think there are other kinds of things that human beings managed to work out—you know—their human beings that have clever insights in mathematics—O—there are human beings who are looking at something that much more—you know—three dimensional world puzzle—sort of figuring up how to do something mechanical—or something like that—and that’s just not a language problem—but on the other hand—I mean—I think language gets close to the universality than some people think as well—because we live in this three D world and operate in it t with our bodies and our feelings and the creators and other defects around it—and you could think—well—not much of that is in language at all—but actually just about all of this stuff we think about—we talk about—we rise about it t in language—we can describe the positions of things relative to each other—there in language—so—a surprising amount of the other parts of the world—as seen on in reflection—in language—and therefore—you are learning about all of them to when you learn about language—you is you learn about one aspect of a lot of things—even if things like—how do you ride a bicycle—can’t really right—you don’t really learn how to ride device to call—but you learn some aspects about it involves that you need to balance—that you have to you your feet on the paddles and pushed them and all that kind of things—yeah—and so—with this trend—NLP—the large language models has been very exciting for the last several years—where what the your thoughts on—where all this look go—well—I mean—yeah—so—it’s just been amazingly successful and exciting—right—that so—we have haven’t explained all the details—right—there’s the first stage of learning these large language models where the toy is just to predict the next word—you do that billions of times over very large piece of text—and behold—you get this large neural network—which is just a really useful or effect for all sorts and natural language processing task—but then you still actually have to do something with that—if you want to do a particular task—whether that’s question answering or summarizing or detecting toxic content in social media or something like that—and at that point—the choice of things that you could do with that—the traditional laws was then you had a particular task—excess—detecting toxic—some social media—and you’d take some supervised data for that—and then you’d fine-tune the language model—answer that classroom task—but you were enormously helped by having this base of this large unsupervised model—because it—mid that—the model had enormous knowledge of language and could generalized very quickly—so unlike the sort of the standard all days of of supervised learning where it was kind of—well—if you give me ten thousand label example examples—I might be have to produce a half a cent model for you—if you give me fifty thousand labour examples—it will be a lot of data—it’s sort of turned into this world of—well—if you give me a hundred label examples and i’m find tuning a large language model—I’ll be have to DO—great—better than I would to be have to do with—with the fifty thousand examples in the old world—some of the more recent exciting works now even going be on that—it’s now well—maybe don’t actually have to find tune the model at tall—say o—people have done a lot of work using method—sometimes referred to as prompting or instruction—where you can simply in natural language—pets with examples—pets with exist instructions—just tell the model what you wanted to do—o—and IT does that—which—you know—even as someone who’s been working in natural language processing for thirty years—how many I actually just blows my mind and how well this works—you know—I guess—I wasn’t a decade ago thinking that now we’ve able to just—you know—tell the model—I want you to summarize this piece of text—and there will be summarize—and I think that’s incredible—yeah—so we’re in this very exciting time where a lot of new natural language capabilities and folding—I think—just is no doubt all—all for the next couple of years—the future of that is extremely bad as people work out different things in different ways to do things—and people start to apply in different application areas—the kind of capabilities that have been unlocked ked with recent technological developments that this always question in technologies to sort of whether the curve keeps on—on having steeply upwards or whether theydon new things we have to discover how to do ah it’s been—is when going up for quite a while—so hopefully—extra flags always angers fbi—ks—you—because you mentioned writing prompts—still the NLP system—the large models where you want IT seems to magic DOIT on curse DO—you think from engineering is—the power f of the future—where when I write these problems—I sometimes find the works miracles—lesly and sometimes is—and—you know—the process of rewarding my instructions to tweet wording together—just right to get it into the result I want—so DO—you think promises generation is wave the future—or do you think is a intermediate hack until someone endless a better way to control these—control the open of these systems? I think it’s both—I think I think it will be the way of the future—but I also think at the moment—people are doing—yeah—a lot of hacking around and rewarding to trying get things to work better—and with any luck with female of development that will start to go away—I mean—one way to think about the difference sort of in comparison to the kind of voice assistance of virtual assistance that are available on phones and speak devices like him as on lex a these days—right—I mean—I think all of us have had experience that present those devices are always great—but if you know the right way to word things—that will ll DO—something that you use the wrong wording—I won’t know—and the difference with human beings is by large—you don’t have to think about that—you can say what you want it—doesn’t that what word you choose that the other human being—you know—a ashame ing—and someone who knows the same language—excel will understand you—and DO—what you want—and I think I would hope that will start to see the same kind of progression on with these models—at the moment—you know—fitting around of the particular wording you use can make a very big difference to how well IT works—but hopefully—a few years time that was once be true—you’ll have to use different wordings—and i’ll still work—but the basic idea that we are moving into this age—we are actually human language—IT should will be able to be used as an instruction—language to tell your computer what to do—o—SO instead of having to use men—use and know radio buttons—things like that—or writing python code instead of either of those things that you’ll be able to say what you want in the computer or DOIT—I think that age is open up in front of U S—That will continue to build—and that will be hugely transformative if feeling come along ways—but only much more to come and much more to go—yeah—absolutely—in the development of NLP technology is only I want to ask you—I suspect you I may have different perspectives on this—but in the last couple of decades—the trend has been to rely less on rule-based engineering and more machine learning on data sometimes lost the data—looking into the future—Where do you think that makes a code constrains or other constrains explicit constans verses—you know—the skill in new—in network—through lost a ata at where d you you think that balance will fall? I think that there’s no doubt that using learning from data is the way ford and what we going to continued to do o—but I think there’s still a space for models that have more structure—more inductive bias that have some kind of basis of exploiting the nature of language—so o in recent years—the model that been a normally ly successful is the transformer neural network—and the transformer neural networks—essentially—that this huge association machines and or just sacked associations from anywhere—and look at two words—if you—which we’re release to which each other work for our words—yes—SO—you use everything to predict them—anything—and D O—I—over and over again—and you’ll give anything you want—and you know—that’s been incredibly—incredibly successful—but it’s been incredibly successful in the train where you have humongous s humongous amounts of data—right—SO—that these transformer models for these large language of models are now being trained on tens of billions of words—D s of text—you know—when I started often statistic natural language processing and some of the traditional linguis used to complain about the fact that I was—you know—collecting statistics from thirty million words of news wire and building a predictive model and thought he know that was just not what linguistics was bad—you know—I felt I had a perfectly good answer—which is that—you know—a human kid as they’re learning language—they’re exposed to actually well more than thirty million words of data—but you know—that kind of amount of data S O—you know—the kind of mountains of data we are using—but perfectly reasonable a amounts of data to be using to be—you know—not exactly trying to model human language acquisition—but to be thinking about how we can learn about language from lots of data—but you know—these modern transformers—and now—you know—using already at least two orders and magna d more data—and you know—most—most people think the way to get things to the next level is to use more still and make a three orders magnitude—you know—one thing—ince—that scaling up strategy has been hugely ely effective—S O O—I don’t blame anybody for saying—let’s make another autum make should bigger and see if what amazing things we can do o—that IT also shows that human learning is just way—way better in being able to exact the lot more information out of a quite limited in amount of—Data—and at that point—you can have various hypotheses—but I think it’s reasoning—the boaster me that human learning is somewhat structure words—the structure of the world and things that season in the world—and that allows it to learn more quickly from less data here with you yond that I think—better than you arms current machine during our rooms are much less efficient—makes much less efficiently use of data—and SO—these way more data than I need—you know—child—and then I think whether the improved learning arms will be from link with sick light rules or whether of just be engineering—engineering much more efficient sions that the transform of whatever comes after through that—the views that will will be traditional—I don’t think it will will be by people explicitly putting traditional linguistic rules into the system—I don’t think that’s the way forward—on the other hand—I mean—you know—I think what we dying to see is models like these transformer models are actually discovering the structure of languages themselves—right—so o—he—the board pex of—you know—human language that—you know—english has the subject before the birth of the object afterwards—Where is—you know—in japanese that the birds at the end of the sentence in the subject and object and normal in that order before that could be in the other order—you know—actually transforming models are learning these facts—you you can enter rigid and then see that even though they were never exposed to told about subjects and objects that they know these notions—S O—I think they know they are discovering a lot else as well about language used in context and the meanings and senses of words—and what is n't—isn't—you know—unpleasant language—but part of what they learning is the same kinds structure that linguists have layed out as the sort structure of human—different human languages says—as if over many decades—linguis discovers tain things—and by training on billions of words—translate as are discovering the same things that linguis discovering—and you go S O—all this is really exciting products in NLP—driven by machine learning and by other other things—to someone entering the feel and entering machine learning—AAONLP—there's just esa lot going on—what advice would you have for someone wanting to break in the machine learning? Yeah—well—it's a great time to break in—I think there's just no doubt at all that we're still in the early stages of seeing the impact of this new approach where effectively software—computer science is being reinvented in on the basis of much more use of machine learning and the various other things that come away from that—and then more generally—across industries—there's just a lots of opportunities for more automation—Making more use of—you know—interpretation of human language material for me or other areas like vision and robotics—the same kinds of things—so o—no lots of possibilities like S O—you know that point that lots to do o obviously want to get some kind of good foundation—right—so o knowing some of the core technical methods of machine learning—understanding ideas of how to build models from data—look at losses to o—training—diagnose areas—all of these core things—I mean—that's definitely useful for natural language processing and particular some of those skills completely relevant—But then there are particular kinds of models that are commonly used—including the—the transform that we've talked about a today—You've they know that transformers—And indeed—there are increasingly being used in every other part of machine learning as wealth of vision by informatics and robotics is now using transformers—But beyond that—I think it's also used photo—learn something about human language—And the nature of the problems that involves—because—I mean—even though people are directly—I'm going to be coding rules of human language into their computing system as sensitivities are—So o what kind of things happen in language and what to look out for and what you might want onder model—that's still a useful school to have—And then in terms of learning the foundations—learning by these concepts—you had entered AI from a linguistic background—And we now see people from—you know—all walks of life wanting to to start doing work in AI—when you thought and the preparation we should have—or any any thoughts on how to start from something other than country designs of AS O—There are lots of places you can come from and vector across in different ways—and we think tons of people doing that—that their people who started off ten different areas—right—Then—you know—was chemistry—physics or even much further and failed in people in history—whatever—have started look at machine learning—I mean—I think there are two levels of answer to there—I mean—one level advance is one of the amazing transformations is that there's these very good software packages for doing things with your own network models—I mean—this—this software really easy to use—you don't actually need to understand a lot of highly technical staff you ve got—He'd have some kind of high level conception about what is the idea—machine learning and how do OI go about training a model—and what should I look at in the numbers that being printed up—Seif—it's working—right—But you know—you don't actually have to have a higher agree to be able to build these models—I mean—indeed—what we're seeing—and you know—lots of high school students are getting into doing this—Because it's actually something that if you have some basic computer skills and bit of programing—you can pick up and do o it's just way more accessible than lots of stuff—And that proceeded IT—whether in AI or outside of AI and other areas—you know—like operating systems or security—But you know—if you want to get to a deeper level than that and actually want to understand more of what's going on—I think you can really get there if you don't have a certain mathematics foundation—like at the end of the this day—that deep learning is based on—calculate—And you need to be optimising functions—And if if you sort of don't have any background and that I think that sort of ends up as a war at some point SO know the machine there are the data—Is it just come in handy for some of the where we are there—unity? Yeah—so o if so OI think at some level—if you are at the major history or you know—non mathematical parts of psychology—I should have a good friend here—Yeah—learn calculus in grand school—because he was a psychologist in nevada before and decide that you want to start learning about these new kinds and bottles and decided IT—Asn't too—too late to be a to go take a count course—And S O—you did—right—so o—you know—you do need to know some of that stuff—but for lots of people—if they yd seen some of that before—even if you kind of rusty—I think you can kind of get back in the zone—And IT doesn't really matter that you haven't know done—Eye is an undergrad or machine learning and things like that—that you can really start to learn how to build these models and do things—And you know—really—that's my own story—right—that despite the fact that they let me um sidin the school of engineering at stanford days—you know—my background is—in this an engineer—You—my pin lu istis—that—you know—I thought of largely vicked across from having some knowledge of mathematics and linguistic and knowing some programing and sort of getting much more into building ai models—meta duty to improve library and abstractions tions that are now available—like coding framework—like tens of flow of pitches D O—You think that reduces to need to understand how wcs—because boy is been—is been a while—says I had to actually take a the rivaw in order—even implements or created a new or nettle cotta because of automatic differences—Yeah—yeah—I mean—absolutely—I mean—SO—in the early days when we were doing things sort of two thousand ten to two thousand fifty—right—for every model we build—we—Were working out the derivations by hand—then you know—writing some code and what effect wills d—you know—sometimes I was pithed—but sometimes might have been job or a see to calculate this to remit of son—checking that we've got them right—And so o on where you know at these days—you actually that need to know anything that build deeping models—I mean—this is actually something I think about being thinking about—even with respect to my own natural language processing—with deep learning class that I teach—you know—at the beginning—we do still go through doing—you know—metrics killers and making sure people know about the kobe ans and things like the ads—O—that they understand what's being done in back propagation—deeper learning—But you know—this sort of this sense—which that means that we just give them health two weeks—you know—sort of like boot care for something to make them suffer—Then we say—all bet—do the rest rest of the class with pitta ch—And they thought of never have to know any that again—right—you know—there's always a question of how DP you want to go in technical foundation—you right—you can keep on going right—Like there's a computer scientists in the twenty twenty need to understand—you know—electronics and transistors—or what happens in—you know—cpu—well—you know—it's complicated—I mean—in very nice ways that is helpful to know some of that stuff—I mean—you know—I know—Andrew—you are one of the pianist giving machine learning gone to gpu and well—you know—that sort of means you had to have some sense that this is this new hardware out there—And IT has the attribute te of parallel—That means that likely to be have to do o—something exciting—SO—you know—IT is useful to have support and knowledge understanding—And yes—sometimes something breaks—And if you have some deep knowledge—you can understand White broke—But there's another sense in which—you know—most people have to take some things on trust—and you can do o most of what you want to do o in your network modeling these days without knowing—calculate all you only the straight that they feel like—sometimes the reliability of the attraction determines how often you need to go into fix something—S O—actually my understand of quantify sics—Very big ak—I barely understand ITSO—You could argue I don't understand how computers workers transitions of that built in contempt sics—But fortunately—you know—if something went wrong with the transit—I've never had to go my hard to think—I think—And so I think I think another example—you the sort function—the lives sort things—And sometimes they actually don't work—right slip in the mario—whatever—And that's leif—you really understand how the sort function we're ks—if you going to fix it—But then sometimes if we have abstractions—libras aps are reliable enough—then that is nice to those attractions—then diminished—Ed—the need extends to—of the things happen on so exciting—Well—you like—yeah—we have gies building on the shelters of giants and all of these things are becoming more contacts and more exciting—Every—every—every month—Really—Yeah—absolutely—so o—thanks for—There was really interesting is staring—and and I hope that to everyone washing this hearing—pris own journey to become computer sciences and become a leading—maybe the leading and a few computer science—All of this exciting work have been enery right now—I hope that inspires you to jumps in the student—Take a go at IT—that just a lot more work to be done collectively by our community and still—So OI think the more of us are working on this is that of the world will be—So they luxury really dhai new year—Thanks—What—andreas—In sum.

